[View code on GitHub](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/blob/master/docs/convert-ascii-to-svg.sh)

The `convert-ascii-to-svg.sh` script is used to convert ASCII art files in the `.bob` and `.msc` formats to SVG and PNG files, respectively. These files are located in the `docs/art` directory and are converted to image files that can be used in the site build. The converted files are saved in the `static/img` directory.

The script first sets the output directory to `static/img` and checks for the presence of the `svgbob_cli` binary. If it is not found, the script checks for the `svgbob` binary. If neither binary is found, the script exits with an error message.

The script then creates the output directory if it does not already exist. It then loops through all `.bob` files in the `docs/art` directory and converts them to SVG files using the `svgbob_cli` binary. The output file name is generated by taking the base name of the input file, removing the extension, and appending the `.svg` extension. The converted SVG file is saved in the output directory.

Next, the script loops through all `.msc` files in the `docs/art` directory and converts them to PNG files using the `mscgen` tool. The output file name is generated in the same way as for the `.bob` files, but with the `.png` extension. The converted PNG file is saved in the output directory.

Overall, this script is used to automate the process of converting ASCII art files to image files that can be used in the site build. This saves time and effort for developers who would otherwise have to manually convert these files. The converted images can be used to enhance the visual appeal of the site and make it more engaging for users. 

Example usage:

To run the script, navigate to the `solana/docs` directory and execute the following command:

```
./convert-ascii-to-svg.sh
```

This will convert all `.bob` and `.msc` files in the `docs/art` directory to SVG and PNG files, respectively, and save them in the `static/img` directory.
## Questions: 
 1. What is the purpose of this script?
   
   This script converts .bob and .msc files in docs/art to .svg and .png files respectively, and saves them in the static/img directory where the site build will find them.

2. What dependencies are required to run this script?
   
   This script requires either the `svgbob_cli` or `svgbob` binary to be installed, as well as the `mscgen` binary.

3. What is the expected directory structure for this script to work correctly?
   
   This script expects to be run from the `solana/docs` directory and for the .bob and .msc files to be located in the `docs/art` directory. The converted .svg and .png files will be saved in the `static/img` directory.