[View code on GitHub](https://github.com/solana-labs/solana/blob/master/ci/format-url.sh)

The `format-url.sh` script is a Bash script that formats a URL to be clickable from a Buildkite log. Buildkite is a continuous integration and delivery platform that helps teams build, test, and deploy their code. When a build is run on Buildkite, the logs generated by the build are displayed in the Buildkite web interface. The logs can contain URLs that are not clickable by default. This script takes a URL as an argument and formats it in a way that makes it clickable from the Buildkite log.

The script first checks if an argument has been passed to it. If no argument is passed, it prints a usage message and exits with an error code. If an argument is passed, it checks if the `BUILDKITE` environment variable is set. If it is not set, it simply prints the URL. If it is set, it escapes any semicolons in the URL by replacing them with `%3b`. This is necessary because semicolons have a special meaning in the Buildkite web interface and need to be escaped in order for the URL to be clickable. The script then uses ANSI escape codes to print the formatted URL in a way that makes it clickable from the Buildkite log.

Here is an example of how to use the `format-url.sh` script:

```
$ ./format-url.sh "https://example.com/path/to/file;line=10"
```

This will output the formatted URL in a way that makes it clickable from the Buildkite log. If the script is run outside of the Buildkite environment, it will simply print the URL without any formatting.
## Questions: 
 1. What is the purpose of this script?
   
   This script formats a URL to be clickable from a Buildkite log.

2. What is the significance of the `BUILDKITE` environment variable?
   
   The `BUILDKITE` environment variable is used to determine if the script is being run in a Buildkite environment or not.

3. What does the `sed` command do in this script?
   
   The `sed` command replaces all occurrences of `;` in the URL with `%3b` to escape the semicolon.